---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Javascript, A Coding Language for Athletes
date: 2019-01-15
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Ever since I first grasped a paintbrush, I’ve always been eager to learn about design. Design is such a complex concept. For example, when looking at abstract art, its meaning can be completely different for different people. It motivates a person to think thoughtfully and has the potential to submerge them in a sea of imagination. It’s that special relationship between the viewer and the art that makes something as technical as software engineering interesting to me.

I never used to think that design and technology went hand in hand.  Thus, learning about software engineering and the role of design has been incredibly interesting to me. Design, implementation, and management are just some of the many things I wish to learn more about. Good art, in a way, makes a person question it. They become joined in the idea of visualization – where captivation meets inspiration.

I am now starting to take a Software Engineering class. I hope to learn a lot through the course, but I know it will be just the beginning of my journey. By the time I’m done with it, I hope I’ve learned enough to take the next step in my life as a developer. But until then, my fire will keep on burning.

Going into the spring semester as an ICS major, I have taken a class that is claimed to be one of the most challenging courses in the ICS department, 314. The very first coding language we are introduced to right away is Javascript. 

Learning Java, C, and a bit of C++ prior to Javascript, I strongly feel that Javascript is a coding language that is condensed, but still more than capable of executing any baseline coding concepts. For me, it was relatively easy to pick up as it does have some similarities to any other coding language like for loops, functions, or return statements with some having small variations to them. 

## What do I think of it in terms of software engineering? 

In terms of calling it a “good” or “bad” programming language from a software engineering perspective, I feel that it really depends on the complexity of what they’re doing. There are better coding languages out there to use if, say someone wanted to design a 3-Dimensional game, as opposed to creating something simpler like designing a professional website for a company (which also utilizes HTML). 

## Now, about ATHLETIC software engineering.

After reading Philip Johnson’s essay regarding athletic software engineering and the industry’s current practice of cubicle software engineering. To simply put, I do believe that Javascript is a great tool for athletic software engineering. As opposed to traditional programming languages, Javascript datatypes are very easy to pick up as well as it’s easy implementation of functions. Not having to worry about initializing the correct datatypes like char or int versus float makes coding much, much quicker. 

## We do these exercises called Practice Workout Of the Day (WOD) using Javascript.

In class. While being timed. Practice WODs are useful, but nothing ever truly prepares you until you’re aware that you’re getting graded for coding on a short time basis. That is when the pressure kicks in and you’re truly pushed to your limits to when it actually matters. That is how Javascript's very useful "shortcut"-like coding language encourages that quick coding style.

## To conclude, after being in this class for only one week..

This style of learning is, without a doubt, stressful. However, it is EXCELLENT practice and discipline to get you to critically think in a short amount of time. It will ultimately build that ability to use your time effectively and keep you on your toes, and Javascript is definitely the .
